1/2/2018 I have not written in the diary in 2 weeks now. I had 2 great weeks of climbing. I left Charlottesville and went to Moore’s Wall with John and Matt.  The day was very cold but I managed to climb some good stuff.  I did white monster, which is like v7/8 and a fun problem. I also did a bunch of repeats. The crux on this day was staying warm. I then went back to Boone with John and we took a day off. The next 2 days I climbed on 221. One day with John, Dylan, and Veronica.  The next day with Matt and met up with the boys. I did one new problem in this time, Make Climbing Great Again, as well as a bunch of repeats. Then that Thursday, Matt and I went to Rumbling Bald for a day. I was psyched to do the French Maid quickly, this one is so classic. I also did some other new ones including DRTR (which is hard for me) and Contact. I also tried Karma Police, and though I didn’t do it I could tell it was possible. I spent 4 days off at home for Christmas in Boone. I think this was a good move as I could tell I was tired. I never fully recovered from that day at Moore’s Wall for some reason. The day after Christmas, my first day back at Rumbling Bald, was one of my best bouldering days ever. That day I did the following new problems… Classic Overhand v3, The North Carolinian v5 (flash), Lost Cause, Sleeping in the Devils Bed, Pit BBQ v6, Green Knob SDS v7, Karma Polica v8, Brackish Water v8. I was super psyched after this performance. The next day I didn’t climb much but went back to the bald with Matt, Dylan, Veronica, and BClev. I gave Patio Roof some good efforts and it is doable. The next day I drove to Chattanooga. Matt couldn’t go after unfortunately injuring his knee. That day at LRC I climbed with Dylan and Veronica and Rachel Scheffe, and a little with the Cville Crew. I did Junkie and The Hulk, 2 new ones. I did many repeats too. The next day I was 4 days on and feeling tired. We went back to LRC where I did many repeats and 2 new ones, Storming the Castle and Tri Star. Tri star is fucking hard but Im glad to get it done. The last day of this trip we went to Rocktown. I did Nose Candy on my 5th day on and didn’t get injured which is a victory.  I did some repeats too.  I’d really like to get back to rocktown fresh, good weather, and be on my own program as I think I could do some really cool new ones, like the Orb. All in all it was a great trip.This season was not my strongest season ever but it was still productive. I had a lot of fun climbing back on the east coast again. I got to do some new ones in Boone and had an amazing day at Rumbling Bald. In 2018 I am more interested in climbing on a rope, probably at the New and other local crags. Bouldering has lost some appeal to me, though I still want to do some local stuff on the parkway. As for now I am going to take a couple weeks off to recooperate and build the psyche back up. 1/2 Lifted weights at AFC 1/3 Lifted weights at AFC1/5 Lifted weights at AFC. Bench – 5 reps 145 standard grip, 5 reps 130 narrow grip, 5 reps 135 wide grip1/6 Went on a hike at PA Byrom park. Beautiful place out there. Saw one decent boulder problem.1/7/2018 Played some basketball with Tyler at Falls Church community center1/8 Went to AFC at lunch. Did shoulders and Abs today. First day on the Myotatic Crunch, felt good!1/10 Lifted weights at lunch. Chest today. 5 reps 150 standard grip. 5 reps 130 narrow grip, 4 reps 150 wide grip (try again). Left work a bit early to ski at Wintergreen. It was fun overall. I checked off a new state and new ski area. I’ll go back if conditions are good the rest of the winter. 1/12 Workout at night, experimenting with 4 hour body exercises. Did Yates Row, Myotatic Crunch, Kettlebell swings. My biceps have not been so sore in a while! Weight for Yates Row, 50 or more on each side.1/13 Big day hiking at Old Rag. Hiked all over looking at other routes and boulders. That gully definitely has some bouldering potential. Beautiful day out there.1/14 Went for a run in the afternoon for about 40mins. Cold day.1/16 First session of the new season! ARC session at Rocky Top. 1 set 15mins 1 set 20mins on the traverse wall (bat cave). This actually worked pretty well. I think if I limit my sessions I won’t get bored out of my mind. I finished with 50reps of 25lbs kettlebell swings and 30reps of 35lbs kettlebell swings. Those will wreck you! Especially the uninitiated like me. 1/17 AFC at lunch time. Today I did Yates bent row with 60lbs on each side. Then went to bench machine and did 50lbs on each side. Finished with Myotatic Crunch, which is brutal. I’ve got to remember in these exercises to TRY HARD!1/18 First HB session of the new cycle. Since I am doing max hangs this time, I needed to dial in my weights. So this session was about experimentation. I think I got them dialed so next week I begin the real hangboarding. 1/19 Weightroom at AFC at lunch. First day of lat pull downs. Weight - 140. Move up next time. Also did kettlebell swings. 30lb kettlebell. 1 set 40 swings. 1 set 30 swings. I NEED TO REMEMBER TO TRY REALLY GODDAMN HARD IN THE FUTURE.1/20 - 1/21 Went to Seneca for the weekend with Taylor and had an awesome time. I felt a bit off and insecure after not having trad climbing in quite a while but the whole experience was great. It was super cool to check out a new classic area which is pretty close to Charlottesville.  We did all kinds of classic moderates.  I think Solar was my favorite. Also, great ARC training for my cycle.  Seneca reminded me the get back in touch with my passive protection. I also saw some crazy gumby shit out there. 1/22 AFC at lunch. Yates row. I think I should go down in weight to get full range of motion on reps.  Try 47.5 on each side next time. Machine bench did 60 on each side. Move up. Myotatic crunch with 5lbs in hand. Focus on good reps.1/23 ARC session 2 at Rocky Top. Did 2 20 minute sets. Very boring, but good for me. 1/24 4 Hour workout at lunch. Supinated lat pull down. Did 2 sets. first set 147.5. Second set 155 (i think). This was 140 with 2 small plates.  Next time, try for 160. Did a set of 50 kettlebell swings with 35lb weight. Then a set of 25.  That first set was hard! Then did 2 sets of myotatic crunches, this time on a full exercise ball. Not sure if I like this or the BOSU ball better. 1/25 Hangboard 1 session at night. This is my first real hangboard session. Last week’s session was an experiment. I am doing max hangs this time instead of repeaters so we will see how it works. This method seems to be more in line with Tim Ferriss’s way of thinking which hasn’t steered me wrong yet. The session is about 1.5 hours, slightly shorter than the repeaters, which I like. I notice it is a fine line between hanging for 5 seconds and hanging for 10. To much weight and the rep is worthless. So it is extra important to record things and to TRY HARD!1/27 Awesome Day at Old Rag. Went with Erin and Jake. We didn’t climb a ton but what we did do what quality. Started with Strawberry Fields (to first anchor) then Report to Sickbay. The extension was wet. Then we did Oh My God Dihedral, which was surprisingly strenuous. Then went down to Wall Dreams are Made Of. I Onsighted bushwhack crack which was a good try hard onsight for me. I didn’t get a chance to try The The because we ran out of time. Awesome day though!1/28 Woke up feeling sore from yesterday at Old Rag. Weight room at AFC. Yates bent row. 1 set with 47.5 on each side. 1 set with 50. Go up to 52.5. On seated bench press did 60 on each side then 65 on each side. Move up to 67.5.  1/29 Hangboard Workout 2. With the new max hangs. Definitely saw improvement over last session. Again we will see how it all translates to the rock.1/31 Supinated pull downs at AFC. 2 sets of 160. Move up next time (1 plate). Did set of 60 reps with 35lb kettlebell, and another set of 20. Best single set yet. Finished with 2 sets of myotatic crunch. 1 set with 5lbs and another with 10lbs. 2/2 HB 3. Good session. 2/3 Went on a hike with Jeff to Sugar Hollow. Finally found the sport crag. It is pretty good!  Definitely good enough to warrant some attention. There are probably 20 routes on greenstone. I’m looking forward to spending time there in the future. Also went to PA Byrom park and looked at the boulder project again. This one is pretty cool after all and looks pretty dang hard. It is worthy. We then went to Rocky Top and I did 2x20 traverse ARC sessions. At night went to Drew’s and watched ABS nationals which was way more interesting than I expected. 2/4 AFC during the day. Yates row 1 set at 52.5, 1 set at 55lbs on each side. Start at 55lbs next time. Machine bench, 1 set at 67.5 and 1 set at 70lbs on each side. Myotatic crunch. 2 sets with 10lbs. 2/5 Hangboard session 4.2/6 Skiing at Snowshoe.  Awesome time!  It is a good enough resort to get my fix. Some fresh snow.  All in all a really nice relaxing day, despite the windy 3 hours both ways. 2/7 Workout at AFC at lunch. Supinated pull downs. 2 sets 160+1 plate. 1 set 75 reps with 35lb kettlebell (new personal best). 2 sets myotatic crunch with 10lbs weight2/8 hb 5 session.  Not a great session. But Kat session was good so I couldn't continue at that pace.2/10 session at Rocky top.  Bouldered for about 2.5 hours and finished with a 15min endurance set.  Fun to climb again.  I did alright considering I am heavier and hav ent climbed lately.  2/11 workout at AFC. Yates bent row.  1 set 55lbs. 1 set 57.5lbs.  Go up next time.  Machine bench press. 1 set 70lbs 1 set 72.5lbs.  Go up next time.2/12 hb6 session.  Struggling to go up in weights2/13 arc session.  2 sets of 20 mins2/14  Valentine's day. Went to AFC at lunch.  Supinated pull downs did 2 sets with 160 + 2 plates.  Move to 180 next time.  Kettlebell swings.  1 set of 25 with 35lbs kettlebell.  1 set of 25 with 45lbs kettlebell, 1 set of 30 with same weight.  Myotatic crunch with 12.5lbs weight. 2 sets.2/16 HB 7 session. Not a good session. Actually regressed a little bit. I started feeling just a bit sick. Also, I am bored as shit. I am just going to call it good with hangboarding and move onto other phases, for the sake of my sanity. 2/17 Hiked around at Wintergreen boulders a bit. The rock is overall good quality. I saw “5th year in the making”. It is not a bad line, but it is an eliminate. I might get psyched on it some time in the future.2/18 Bouldering at “the hill” with Jeff and Taylor. Didn’t feel great. I was a little sick, and I’ve been mostly hangboarding. But I did 2 v5s and a v4. It was very nice to be outside on a sunny day. 2/19 Feeling a little sick but I went into the AFC at lunch and did light weightlifting. Did scaled down sets of Yates row, machine bench press, myotatic crunch. 2/20 Rocky Top at night. I was unsure if I should campus or just boulder since I’ve been a little sick. I ended up just bouldering. Feeling heavy with little endurance but I managed a few things. Campusing next session.2/21 AFC at lunch. Supinated pull downs. 1 set 180. 1 set 180 + 1 plate. 2 sets myotatic crunch. 1 set with 10lbs, 1 set with 15lbs. Feeling not sick any more.2/22 Experimental campus session. Started with a 15min ARC session. Then did some bouldering, supposed to be limit bouldering but really wasn’t. By the time I got around to campusing I did not last long. Need to remember to do a quick warmup, no longer than 45mins. Then get to campusing. 2/24 Rocky Top. Yet another rainy weekend. 3 sets of 20 minutes on traverse wall. Very boring but luckily I had a podcast. I’m still kind of heavy too. Went on a hike at Sugar Hollow, the crag was dry even on a rainy/misty day. 2/25 Rocky Top again. Another rainy Sunday. Today the gym was really busy and I was really bored. I did one set of 20mins ARC, tried to stay in the steep rest. I did another 20min set with a weight vest. I think I added 12lbs. This definitely added some heat to the ARC set. Finished with some light deadlifts and pushups. 2/26 AFC at lunch.  1 set yates row with 50lbs. 1 set with 55lbs. Machine bench, 2 sets 70lbs. Myotatic crunch. 2 sets with 10lbs2/27 Rocky Top session. Warmed up with 15mins of ARCing. Then bouldered for about 30mins. I got flashpumped as always. Fell off the top of a long v6 which pissed me off. Got to campusing finally and had a much better session. Did up 1 pull through 2 on big rungs, skip 1 skip 1. I felt like my timing was a little off with my doubles, and skip doubles. Still heavy.  The Jeff diet is not helping me lose any weight, which I suppose is OK for the moment. But it is good to test this before my weight really matters. 2/28 AFC at lunch. Supinated pull down, set of 180+2 plates. Kettlebells, 1 set 25 and 1 set 50 swings with 35lb kettlebell. Myotatic crunch 1 set 10lbs and 1 set 15lbs.  Feeling kind of sick. 3/3 Went for a hike at Trout lake with mom, dad, eileen, will. Beautiful blustery day in Boone. Felt great to get outside. Especially after being sick for a few days.3/4 went to Hidden Valley with Leif. First day I felt not sick in a while. It was a beautiful day to get outside. About 50 degrees and sunny. My first day at hidden valley. It's a pretty cool crag. Scrappy, definitely not the new or the red but not bad. I had a great time clipping some bolts. I nearly onsighted a 12b (should have, but missed a key hold) and onsighted a 12a. I did a handful of other routes too. The endurance was not great but like I said it was great to be outside on a pretty day with a friend. Hopefully I’ll get to do some more next weekend, but where? 3/9 Skiing at Snowshoe with Nina3/10 Climbing at Reeds Creek at Franklin with the crew. Andrew, Jeff, Nina, Danger Dan, Parker and others. Really nice day once the sun came out! I onsighted 2 12as which was a good effort for me considering I am kind of heavy and not in great shape.3/13 Really bad campus session.  Feeling really heavy...3/14- 3/21 Went to Big Sky, MT for a ski trip with the family. Great time!  I really miss skiing and it makes me sad I won’t get to do it for a while.3/22 First session back after ski trip, climbed really badly but that is to be expected. Kinda heavy too. Getting back on the diet horse. 3/24 Sugar Hollow with the crew. My first time actually climbing there. I had a really good time.  I did a couple 5.11s, and I did No More Kneebars 2nd go.  It has a very cool crux move!  Also tried Static Drop at the end of the day and was tired. Great day out there.  Didn’t feel completely terrible after the ski trip.3/25 Hiked at Sugar Hollow in the afternoon on a beautiful day. 3/26 Short weightlifting session  at lunch.  Watched Dirtbag: The Legend of Fred Beckey at night in Richmond3/27 Rocky Top at night. Bouldered a bit and felt stronger than last week.  Did the crimpy blue problem first go (barely).  It wasn’t pretty but I got to the top. I still didn’t send orange, but I almost did, so that is progress.  As usual I probably bouldered a bit too much and my campusing was not that good. 3/29 Very warm spring day. I managed to leave work early and get out to Sugar Hollow after work with Jeff and Melissa.  It was a very nice night.  I got in 3 pitches, Orange Crush, Static Drop, and No More kneebars.  I was psyched to send all 3.  I did no more kneebars in the dark (with a headlamp) with a wet hold.3/31 Absolutely beautiful spring day in Boone.  Matt D was good enough to go out to the dump with me. Matt Paden and Melissa and Leif also showed up.  I fell off the last move of Ride the Lightning 3 times, the move to the jug.  I was as close to doing it as possible without actually doing it.  I was surprised I got that close.  Here is the beta to remember next time:From the rest jug on Unwritten Law:Get right heel hook close to hands, cross right hand to small crimp, bump left hand to one next to it (remember crimp is in front of hold), bump left hand again to right side of jug hold.  Shuffle heel closer, shuffle right hand to closer crimp and bump left hand again to further left part of jug (best part). Post left foot below me and go right hand over roof to positive crimp.  Shuffle right foot to obvious big toe and get left foot below me to chip toe on flake.  Reach far left to sidepull crimp. Bring left toe under me to dimple foot and take right foot off big foot.  Bump Left again and either go right or left hand to jug (left side).  Not sure which one is better for the last move. After that, rest up, clip last bolt and move right to go for anchor.  Super psyched to get back to this one!4/1 Feeling pretty tired after yesterday. Met up with Matt D at blowing rock in the morning and bouldered a little.  Did a couple laps on the pump wall.  I did a down and back for the first time in a long time.  Spent the rest of the afternoon with Mom and dad.  4/2 Light weighlifting at lunch time at the AFC.  Trying to keep the shoulders feeling good.  I was feeling very tired after the weekend.  I am not being disciplined with my diet. TRY HARDER GOD DAMNIT.  Remember Ride the Lightning4/3 Afternoon session at Sugar Hollow. I got on Sugar Daddy for the first time.  I gave it 2 burns.  It is basically a boulder problem to extra 5.11 climbing.  The boulder problem is very steep and physical on relatively good holds, which is cool. Its probably the best route at the crag. 4/4 Spent the afternoon riding bikes with Alex on the Rivanna trail.  Beautiful spring day!  Sort of cold though.4/5 I was in Virginia Beach for the day so I didn’t do any physical activity on this day besides walking to the beach at lunch.  It was nice to see. 4/6 Beautiful Friday afternoon. Today was a day of near sends at Sugar Hollow. We all met up at around 4 and headed out there. I managed to flash “Tilt”, a sweet 12a with a dyno.  I rarely encounter dynos like that on a route. I am not good at dynos so doing this one first go was rad. I then gave 2 burns on Sugar Daddy. My 2nd burn was a near send. I caught the weird right hand funny and ultimately fell. But I am pretty confident I can do it next chance.  We ended with some pizza and beer at Crozet pizza. 4/7 Rainy Saturday. I had a productive day with other stuff.  I lifted weights lightly in the afternoon at the AFC, to prevent shoulder and elbow injuries.4/8 Beautiful day at Reed’s Creek in Franklin.  I went with Taylor, Parker, Tommy, and Chelsea. It was about 45 degrees but sunny, making for very nice conditions.  I had done quite a few of the routes but I did 4 new ones. I approached today as more of an endurance day. I did 8 pitches total up to 12b. One thing I want to do more of is appreciate the beauty of the places I’m in.  I’ve been climbing a lot lately, and a lot of hurried sessions, cramming in as much as possible. I want to breathe a little bit. Today I finished my 8th pitch on Big Show, so I seem to be pretty fit at the moment.  4/9 Light weight lifting and stretching at the AFC at lunch. Feeling pretty tired from yesterday.4/10 Sugar Hollow session after work. Beautiful day with crispy spring weather.  Perfect weather really. I went up 2 warmup routes and then fired Sugar Daddy first go, but not without some try hard.  Sick!  I think its low end 13a and it took me 5 goes total.  I really didn’t expect to climb 13a this season so I am psyched. I also did a lap on No More Kneebars right after.  Taylor also sent Sugar Daddy and Jeff sent No More Kneebars so it was sending all around.4/11 Played basketball after work with Alex and walked around campus a little.4/12 Light weighlifting at lunch. Felt like I should skip climbing today.  4/13 No physical activity today, drove to the New after work with Jeff. 4/14 Great day of climbing at the New.  We ended up going to The Other Place on the south side of the Meadow River.  I had not been there in quite some years.  Maybe 7 years?  It turned out to be a great day.  I sent Depth Charge first go and while I was trying hard, it felt relatively casual. I also onsighted another 12a, and finally did the 11d in the Hangar (Tiggers and Airplanes). I finished up the day with a lap on Flaming Pellets.  Great day of climbing!  Jeff was in for a rude awakening at the New, but it was a good learning experience for him.4/15 Rocky top in the afternoon.  I did a set of 15min.  Then 2 more sets with a 12lb weight vest.  Very hot and sweaty in there.  I also did some shoulder and chest exercises.   We went to Porchella at night but got rained on. 4/16 Went on a run after work around the neighborhood.  This is the first run I’ve been on in quite a while.  I did it because I was starting to feel old and slow.4/17 Adventurous day at Sugar Hollow.  The river was way up after the heavy rains on Sunday night, making river crossings difficult and it was kind of exhausting just to get to the crag.  I still got in 4 pitches though. I tried to go up the left hand version of “Tilt” but got stumped at the 3rd bolt without a hold to clip it from.  I left 2 quickdraws up on the route. I also gave the Entomologist a whirl.  I didn’t know what to do and didn’t find it very inspiring either.  Maybe I’ll try again another day.  4/18 Went back to rocky top.  I pretty much just bouldered around. Hung out with some friends4/19 Walked around town with Juliet4/20 Light weightlifting at AFC4/21 Beautiful day at the New River Gorge.  I climbed mostly with Andrew and Jeff. We did some classic trad lines at the party buttress.  I onsighted Melifluous, which was rad.  11a trad still intimidates me so I’m glad I stepped up to it. We later went over to the Fall Line and I fired it first go, which really surprised me.  I remember trying it back in the day and really struggling at the crux, and then again above the crux.  It was also a seriously beautiful spot over there at fern creek falls.  We finished the day with some more trad climbing at Fern Buttress.  Great day 4/22 Feeling pretty tired after yesterday.  But we went to Cotton Top.  It was very busy when we arrived unfortunately.  But somehow Psycho Wrangler was unoccupied so I went up that as a warmup.  I hung at the crux to prevent a flash pump, but that is a seriously classic route!  I later did a wet 5.7 because it was available.  The wet made things exciting.  Then andrew and I did a semi-wet 10a.  I finished with 2 goes up a 12b Intergalactic Orcas.  I nearly did it second go.  The route was pure power endurance and I think if I’d been fresher I would have done it.  4/23 Weightlifting in AFC at lunch time.4/24 Rocky top at night.  Warmed up bouldering and then campused.  I have not campused in a while and I did mediocre.  4/25 Short session at Rocky Top.  Did a 10 minute traverse to warm up followed by a 15 min traverse with a weight belt.  4/27 Easy weightlifting at AFC at lunch.  Drove to Boone at night.4/28 Beautiful day at the dump.  I finally did Ride the Lightning.  2nd go of the day.  Going right hand to the jug at the end was the beta.  Felt great!  As many hard climbs do, it didn’t feel super hard when I sent it. Psyched to have put this major chapter in my climbing to rest. Many friends were there including Matt, Dylan, Veronica, Matt Paden, Melissa, Cam.  Great day to be alive!CCC fundraiser at night.4/29 Back at the dump again. Another great spring day, absolutely perfect weather.  About 55 degrees and sunny.  I did Homegrown, BoyznBerry Dickcheese, a lap on warpin crack and 2 toprope attempts on Porter’s Route.  I did all but one move and after seeing Dylan do that move I think I can do it.  Beta to remember…-At 3rd bolt, move out left to get to 4th bolt.  At 4th bolt (crux), make sure to get left hand on good edge, right foot on obvious good foot.  Make move with right hand to small gaston crimp and match next to it with left hand on another small crimp. Feet up (somewhere?) and make hard right hand move to another edge up and right.  Grab left hand sidepull and continue up crimps.  Looking forward to trying this one again on a future trip to Boone. 4/30 Light shoulders in the AFC.  Trying to do something to correct my left shoulder5/1 Sugar Hollow after work with Brian.  Managed to get in 4 pitches despite leaving at 5:30pm!  I did Orange Crush, Between the Lines, Into Oblivion, and Tilt.  Beautiful day to be outside.5/2 Rocky top after work.  Just bouldered around in the heat.  Flashed a v6 and did some other cool face problems in the narrow room.5/3 Weightlifting in the AFC before work.  Added machine military press to regular exercises5/5 Sugar Hollow with the crew on a day that was supposed to be rainy but turned out OK after all. It was kind of an obscurities day. We did Ball & Chain, which is in between Kneebars and Ladybugs. I also did the ladybugs left finish which is not as difficult but longer and worthy doing.  Fun session!5/6 Peak Experiences gym with Erin in Richmond.  Spent like 5 hours at the gym and did a ton of pitches!  Fun day overall. 5/7 Light workout at lunch5/8 Sugar Hollow after work with Melissa and Parker. Pretty hot day. This is probably the last Sugar Hollow afternoon session of the spring.  I got shut down on the Tilt extension. Melissa fell off the last move of Orange Crush.  I did repeat No More Kneebars in the heat though so all in all it was worth it. 5/9 Light workout at lunch5/10 Bouldering at Rocky top for about 1.5 hours at night.  I didn’t mean to climb much but I was having fun so I stayed for a while. Climbed alright.  5/11 Light workout at lunch.5/12 Beautiful, but hot and sunny, day at the New with Matt.  Neither of us slept well the night before.  We got up early and went to the Upper Meadow.  We were the first car in the parking lot.  We did 3 routes at 1st Buttress.  All classics I have done before.  Then we went to second buttress and I did Schneezal first go.  I was nervous because I had tried it years ago when I lived at the New and got thoroughly shut down.  I remember I couldn’t do the crux and I was super pissed off. Today I did it first go and it was super classic!  A 4 star, 100ft Doug Reed route.  You can’t ask for more than that.  Next we went to Third Buttress and did an 11a, which I’ve done before.  I next took a trip up The Prow.  I tried it once last fall and had trouble with the top boulder problem.  Turns out the boulder problem is still hard. I didn’t try it again because it feels very low percentage and I didn’t want to climb 90ft to fall off at the same spot. It will be one to come back for though.  I finished the day with a lap up Skull in Hole, which I sent years ago for my first 12a flash.  That day I hate-sent the route after getting crushed on Schneezal.  Good to see things come full circle. We finished climbing at about 3 and then went to Fayette Station for a swim in the new river. The water was cold and refreshing.  After that we made a quick stop at Waterstone and then went to Pies and Pints for pizza.  It was everything you want in a New River Gorge trip!  I fell asleep super early after not sleeping last night and got a great night’s sleep. 5/13 Kaymoor with Matt.  Again we got up early and got to the crag at about 8am.  We were the 2nd group at the wall.  We did Flight of the Gumby and one of the 5.10s to warm up.  Then we went to 7.11 wall and did Tony the Tiger, which turned out to be pretty hard. Then we did Scenic Adult, which was super rad! Many years ago Matt and I had ventured up the route only to get smacked down thoroughly. This time it didn’t feel super hard, but it did feel super classic! Matt was pretty worked by this point but I still wanted to climb some more.  Next I onsighted All the Right Moves back at Butcher’s Branch which I had not tried and had never seen anyone try. Turns out it was classic and maybe my favorite of the weekend.  The upper headwall had perfect rock. We finished the day with a lap up Lost Souls which I didn’t send but still enjoyed.  After that we went back to the cars and then down to the river again for a quick swim. The water was cold but felt great!  I drove back to Charlottesville and even had time to practice Danish and Spanish at night.  Great day!  And probably a great end to the season.  I am feeling pretty thrashed and I’d like to rehab my left shoulder a little bit.  I might have continued climbing but the summer weather has set in and the forecast looks hot, humid, and rainy.  No reason in trying to fight it.5/14-5/19 Didn’t do as much physical activity this week. I’m taking a break from climbing.5/21 Went for a hike at White Oak Falls off the parkway.  Some potential climbing out there!5/22 Workout A1 of the summer.  Back on the Tim Ferriss program. Supinated pull down 1 set 150.  Go up in weight next time.5/23 Workout B1 of the summer. Yates bent row, 2 sets of 50lbs. Machine shoulder press, 2 sets of 90lbs. Go up5/25 Workout A2. Supinated pull downs - 180.  Go up. Kettlebell swings- 3 sets of 25 reps with 44lb kettlebell.  Try to go up in reps to 30 per set5/26 Went on a hike at Sugar Hollow with mom and dad.  Walked around UVA later5/27 Not much physical activity. Went to the wineries and breweries out towards Wintergreen.5/28 Went on a short run in the morning.  Went to Monticello with the family afterwards.  Spanish dinner at Juliet’s at night.  Feeling fat.5/30 Workout B2. Shoulder press, 1 set 100, 1 set 120lbs. Yates bent row, 1 set 50 on each side, 1 set 52.5 on each side.  Move up.5/31 Workout A3 in the morning.  Supinated pull down 1 set 180, 1 set 190.  Next time try 1 set 190, 1 set 195.  Kettlebell swings, 3 sets of 30 reps. Myotatic crunch 2 sets. Hangboard workout 2 at night.  Moved up from last session’s weights and felt more comfortable overall even after only 1 day of rest. HB2 at night.  Good session6/2 Peak Experiences in Richmond with Erin.  Good session.  Despite being fat and out of shape i still climbed pretty well.  Got on a handful of routes in the 11+/12- range and onsighted 2, fell on 2.  Climbed for about 4 hours total.  Fun afternoon. This was the best we could do on a very rainy day.  6/3 Workout B3 in the morning.  Shoulder press was different because the machines are different in AFC vs memorial gym.  Go back to mem gym and continue with weights (130 for shoulders) next time. Yates bent row.  1 set 52.5 on each side, 1 set 55 on each side. 6/4 HB3 in the morning.  Good session except I am not sure about the pinch grip, it feels more friction dependent than strength dependent.  But the other grips are improving so that is most important.  Went to Spy Rock with Ellen after work to see the sunset.  Great time!  Except it was really cold and windy up there. 6/5 Workout A4 at lunch. Supinated pull downs. 1 set 190, 1 set 195. Try this again next time.  Kettlebells, a couple warmup sets of lighter weights and a set of 40 with the 44lb kettlebell.  I was breathing hard after that one!  3 Sets of myotatic crunch with 12.5 lbs.6/6 Mtn bike ride at O Hill after work.  Beautiful day!6/8 HB4 in the morning.  Good session.  Workout B4 after work. 130 lbs x 2 sets on shoulder press.  1 set 55lbs Yates Row, 1 set 57.5.  Go up next session6/9 Woke up early and went to see Love Gap crag finally, with Jake.  The crag is alright, probably worth a few visits.  It has some nice moderate looking cracks.  Also, we looked around for “Love Lost” but couldn’t find it. 6/10 Went on a bushwhack hike looking for rock at Jones Run Falls off of Skyline drive in Shenandoah.  Found some rock, there is some bouldering potential.  Unfortunately the crag is too broken to be really good.  Got caught in a thunderstorm, nice day out.6/11 HB 5 workout at night.  Good session except for pinch grips.  I think I will skip the pocket from now on and see if I can bring up the pinch grip instead.  6/12 Workout A5. Supinated pull downs 1 set 190, 1 set 195.  Go up to 1 set 190, 1 set 200 next time.  Kettlebell swings, 1 warmup set and 1 set of 45reps with 44lbs kettlebell.  12lbs on myotatic crunch.6/13 HB6 in the morning.  Not a great session.  I was having a hard time waking up.  I am also going to try and move the pinch grip to the first grip to see if it has any effect because it refuses to improve.  The only grip I hit weights on is the crimp.  But I also bumped 5lbs last time so I might just be equalizing. 6/14 HB 6.  Not a great session, but I was probably just equalizing after Tuesday’s very good session. Only hit my weights on the crimp grip.  I am going to try and move the pinch grip to the front in order to make progress on it. Workout B5. 1 set 7 at 55lbs Yates bent row.  1 set 5 at 60lbs Yates bent Row.  2 sets 140 shoulder press.  6/15 Left work early and went to Grayson HIghlands for a little bouldering on the way to Boone.  I got there about 4pm and got lost trying to find the first two areas.  I eventually went to the highlands area and to try Horizon Line.  This is a total classic in a beautiful setting, but I couldn’t do it.  I figured out all the moves finally though.  Maybe next time?6/16 Got up early and went to Hawksbill with Matt.  We went straight to Lower Hawksbill and I got straight on the fat lady/encore.  I’ve wanted to do this line for years and finally got the chance. Totally classic!  I can tell I am not in good endurance shape at the moment.  But it was also hot and a warm up so I’m glad I got it done as I haven’t been trad climbing lately.  We then went to Middle hawksbill and did a few more routes.  Matt worked on Line of Fire.  I went up “Fat Girls Cant Jump” twice.  It has a tough crux up high and has a lot of techy climbing.  Finished with a lap on the Jug Route.  6/17 Not much today, spent father’s day with mom and dad.  Tried to boulder at Holloway a little bit but got rained out.  Watched the world cup instead6/18 Workout A6 at lunch. 1 set 50 reps w/ Kettlebell, a personal best.  1 set 190, 1 set 200 supinated pull down.  Try 1 set 195, 1 set 205 next time. 6/19 HB 7 in the morning.  Hit my weights, including with the pinch grip after I moved it up to the front.  Climbed a bit at Rocky Top at night. For about 1 hour, just some easy stuff.  6/20 Workout B6. 2 sets of 5 w/ 150lbs on shoulder press. 1 set 55lbs 1 set 60lbs on Yates bent row. 6/21 Ran a 5 mile loop at Ragged Mtn natural area.  Nice place!  And good trails super close to home.6/22 HB 8. Had to skip one grip due to time constraints. Did not hit all my weights.6/23 Long hike out at Mt. Pleasant.  Nice day to be outside.  Went bushwhacking for rock and found some bouldering potential, unfortunately no routes though.  6/24 Workout A7 at the AFC. Supinated pull downs were different on other machine.  Did kettlebell swings w/ 50lb kettle bell.  2 sets of 30 reps.  Hard!  Myotatic Crunch. 6/25 HB 9 at night.  Proud that I have made it through 9 of these. I hit all my weights this time, except my pinch grip refuses to budge.  It feels so much more friction dependent than the other grips. 6/26 Rocky Top session. First bouldering session after hangboarding yesterday. Felt pretty weak but it was fun to climb again.6/27 Went on a walk on the Monticello trail with Ellen6/28 Bouldering session at Rocky Top at night. Pretty weak session, but better than the last one. Can’t climb much in the steep room and have very little endurance, but this is to be expected of course.  Finished with some light weight lifting.6/29 Workout at the AFC in the morning.  6/30 Beautiful day at Watauga Lake for mom’s retirement party. Went wakeboarding and swimming. 7/1 Beautiful day at the lake.  Went swimming and 2 kayaking trips.7/2 Lifted weights in the morning.  45 reps w/ 50lbs kettlebell. 7/3 Bouldered in Rocky Top at night. Didn’t climb great but felt a little pep again and had some fun.  Fell off the top of a v6 that was techy and vertical. Sent another v6 that was a little steeper. Decent session all together.7/4 Didn’t do much on the 4th of July, it was such a hot day. Later in the day I went to a cookout with Ellen and friends.  We had a water balloon fight.7/6 Bouldering at Rocky top after work. Did all the moves on a v7 and did some links on it. Maybe next time.7/7 Beautiful day. Crispiest conditions since May.  Spent the day in Richmond with Ellen. We climbed at the Manchester Wall which turned out to be pretty fun after all. We climbed at the main wall and the first pillar. I even did some trad climbing. I’d like to climb all 13 or 14 pillars in a day sometime. Went to the Richmond Flying Squirrels game at night.  Fun day!7/8 Fun day at Franklin with Jim, Melissa, Cailey, Corey, and Katie. My first time to Franklin proper. I climbed with Jim all day. We did 6 pitches up to 12a including a really classic 5.11. I climbed much better than I expected for being overweight and out of shape. Took a swim in the river at the end of the day. Beautiful weather, it was actually chilly when we got there but warmed up as the day went on.7/9 Went to AFC during lunch for a workout.  50 reps kettlebells with 50lbs.  Hard! 7/10 Session at Rocky Top after work. Did a v6 on slopers on the prow. Did the pink v7 with long moves on pretty good crimps. First v7 in a while and glad to do it even though I’m a little heavy and out of shape now.7/12 Lifted weights at AFC. Deadlift, shoulder press, abs, etc.7/13 Rocky top bouldering session at night. 7/14 Spent all day with Ellen. We went on a hike to a swimming hole which had some cold and refreshing water. Later we drank kombucha, ate peach ice cream, cooked steaks, and played video games. 7/15 Went on a run at Ragged Mtn reservoir in the morning. It was a hot 5 miles. Watched the world cup finals at Juliet’s house. Then went to the airport and left for Denmark. 7/16 Arrived in Aalborg after overnight flights around 2pm. I decided to try and walk to the Airbnb, and I did successfully though it took quite a bit longer than Google Maps suggested. But I got to walk across the bridge and see the city. Went to the fjordepark in the evening for a swim. This place is great!7/17 First full day in Aalborg. I ran some errands, including groceries, and went to the Fjordepark for a swim. Went to Game later and did some manual labor with Jonathan including moving some basketball goals. Later we put on a beginner climbing event and I got to climb for 45 minutes or an hour. The wall is pretty good.  The holds are not great.  But at least its available! I got to see the middle of Aalborg via 2 different routes to and from Game.7/18 Lots of walking today. Got up early and went to the fjordepark for a morning swim.  It was a little cold, but refreshing.  Later, went to Game and we went to Lovang, where we played soccer and other games with some local kids. Afterwards, I walked around the city some more including back to the Fjordepark. 7/19 Went to the Fjordpark in the morning for a swim. Later went to Game and did some cleaning, built a basketball goal and climbed. 7/20 Long day. Went to the fjordpark in the morning for a quick swim. Got to Game at noon and started setting boulder problems. I think I put up 6 new ones.  Setting is a lot of work!  I have a new found respect for setters.  After that I climbed for like 3 hours and we had a little competition. Jonathan gave me his bike to use for the rest of my time in Aalborg, which is awesome!  I am very thankful to have it. 7/21 Spent a few hours at the Fjordpark today, reading and swimming.  I did 2 backflips off the high dive.  Later I went for a bike ride around the city. I think I’ve seen nearly all the things in Aalborg I want to see.7/22 Went on a bike ride to Nibe.  This was a test ride to see how I would do as I don’t usually ride a bike very long distances. The way there was hard as I was going into the wind the whole way.  I was pretty pooped by the time I got to Nibe.  I sat for a few minutes, turned around, and rode with the with on the way home and it was much easier.  It was fun to get out of the city and see the countryside. It reminds me a lot of Michigan.7/23 Went to the fjordpark and swam around for a while.  Hot, sunny day.  Later went to Game. I popped a tire so I walked back.  I need to fix that today. 7/15-8/6 Trip to Denmark and Sweden.  I climbed in the gym in Aalborg, on the beach in Lokken, and at Utby in Gothenburg.  Nothing too hard.  I nearly sent my gym proj in Aalborg but tweaked a finger on the crux move (while doing it I might add). Great trip all in all!8/16 I have not logged anything since I got back from Europe, but nothing too exciting has happened.  My finger injury from Denmark is not too serious and it has been rehabbing since I got back. I should restart the training diary since I am about to prep for the upcoming fall season. I have done 1 bouldering and 3 ARC sessions since I got back. 2 at rocky top and 1 in Lynchburg at the Rise Up gym.  I liked that gym a lot actually! It beats the pants off rocky topToday, did a session at Rocky Top. 10min of ARC to warm up.  Then endurance bouldering.  Tried to get in as much as I could. 8/17 Short workout at Memorial Gym in morning.  Deadlifts 235. Abs and box jumps too8/18 Chicago for Cait’s wedding. Went to the beach on Lake Michigan in the morning.  Spent the rest of the day at the wedding.  Great to see the whole family.8/19 Spent almost the entire day at O’Hare airport after my flight was delayed. Went on a short run at night.8/20 Peak Experiences in Richmond with Ellen.  Went to the Midlothian Gym (older) and it was fine. Not as good as the new one in downtown richmond but fun times. Did a bunch of pitches. Onsigted 1 12- route. 8/21 Weightroom at lunch. Bench and shoulder press + shoulder exercises.  HB1 of the fall season after work. My left middle finger, which I tweaked in Denmark, held up well which is nice. Felt stronger than last training’s HB1.  8/22 Weightroom in morning. Deadlift 240. Myotatic crunch8/24 HB2 in the morning.  Made progress on all but the pinch grip which is amazing. Drove to Breaks interstate park at night. Long drive but I havent been on a road trip in a while so it didn’t feel too bad. 8/25 Breaks interstate park with Leif. Woke up early, hiked, made a plan.  Rapped down a line that turned out to not be that good. Didn’t have time to do much else except hike some more. But we identified some good potential at the Notches area. A couple really nice lines that are undone. I also saw the towers overlook. Beautiful place! Also climbed 2 pitches, put up by leif and tilley. Both 5.10 trad routes.  They were both dirty but good routes. 8/26 Breaks again.  It rained last night unexpectedly so we were hosed by the weather. Spent the morning and early afternoon thrashing around in the woods looking for more rock. Saw some really good undeveloped potential at the Lodge walls!  Exciting stuff.  Also, drove down to the river for a quick swim at the end of the day with Leif. On my long drive home, stopped and saw Bri for dinner in blacksburg.  8/27 Workout at lunch. Dead lift 245 x 3 reps. Myotatic Crunch. 2 sets of box jumps8/28 HB3 in the morning. Made gains on all but pinch grip8/29 Workout at lunch. Machine bench. Machine inclined bench. Shoulder exercises 8/30 HB4 at night.  Did not drive to Boone after all. Felt like I needed a night off. 9/1 Went for a hike with Mom and Dad at Gentry Creek Falls outside Mountain City.  Surprisingly, it didn’t rain. Watched football at night.9/2 Hung out with Maggie for lunch.  Session at Center45 in the afternoon with Josh, John, and others.  Good sesh, first gym sesh in a while. Played basketball at night at Blowing Rock school with Dad and friends.9/3 Bouldering at Outward Bound boulders with Josh, Leif, Dospoy.  Nice day out with the boys!  Surprisingly dry after all the rain in Boone. I managed a few warmups and the Mayflower and Manifest Destiny.  Felt good to do some rock climbing again!9/4 Workout at lunch.  Chest9/6 HB 5. 9/8 Went to Peak gym in Richmond with Andrew, Erin, Jake. Climbed a bunch of pitches. I can tell I have not been doing any endurance activities. Still did first go up to 12a. Actually didn’t rain.  We could’ve climbed outside today.9/9 Lifted weights at AFC on a rainy day. Deadlift 250. I think I am ready to move up to the high box in box jumps.  Maybe go down to 5 jumps a set?  Went on a run at night in the cool rain. Felt great that Charlottesville is not 95 degrees. 9/10 HB6 in the morning.  Really try hard to hit those marks!9/11 Went to Peak Gym in Richmond with Jeff at night. Was going for fitness again though I did give a burn on the purple 12+ route. I didn’t really give it a great go but I think I’ll do it next go. I did the 5.12 slab and the 5.11 arete I fell on last time.9/12 Quick workout at lunch. Bench and shoulder press + shoulder exercises9/13 Weightroom in AFC at lunch. 255 deadlift, 3 reps. Myotatic Crunch. Stepped up to the high box on box jumps. Did 1 set of 10 on the lower boxes and 2 sets of 5 on the higher box. I am surprised I got up there!9/14 HB 7 in the morning. 9/15 Day trip to the New. My first time doing the new in a day and while it was a lot of goddamn driving, it was worth it. Went to the Upper meadow with Tommy, Andrew, Parker, Taylor, Melissa, Cailey, and Fanning. I did way better than expected as I am not in great endurance shape now and have been hangboarding, sending Creature (12c) in 2 goes. Tommy almost sent it. Taylor did Schneezal and Andrew did Skull in Hole. I gave 2 goes on The Prow, which is turning out to be a nemisis rig. Tommy went up and did the crux easily, I tried a 2nd time and still couldn’t do it left hand like he did.  Oh well, I guess it doesn’t suit me. Great day out there!  Besides getting tickets from the cops. 9/16 Sunday Funday. Spent the day at Josh and Corinne’s in Afton (with Ellen). Climbed a bit in their barn. Felt tired after yesterday.9/17 AFC for quick chest and shoulders workout at lunch. 9/18 HB 8 after work.  Good session!  There is definitely a difference between working out in the morning or after work9/19 AFC at lunch.  260lbs deadlift. 2 sets of 10 reps on high box jump9/20 Played Bball with Alex after work9/21 HB 9 in the morning.  Not a great session. But last one of the fall!  Glad to be over with that.  Diet starts monday.9/22 Ride 32 miles on the Virginia Creeper Trail from Abingdon and Damascus and back with Ellen, Mom, and Dad.  It ended up being a big day!  Drank some beers and had dinner in Abingdon afterwards9/23 Hiked the Channels trail with Ellen.  Was about 6 miles in total. Really cool sandstone maze formations up there. Drove back to Charlottesville later in the day. No rain at all! We got lucky.9/24 Power1. Today was an exciting day at rocky top.  It was my first time back since the renovation and I was really impressed!  The new walls really open up the gym and add a lot of terrain. But the most exciting thing is the moon board. I had my first session on it and I am so psyched about it. The problems are stiff, even one of the v4s I couldn’t do.  The climbing is all about power, which is my biggest weakness and the point of the power cycle of training. I might try just moonboarding instead of campusing since it is so fun and more climbing specific. 9/25 Traversing and endurance at Rocky Top. 2 sets of 15 mins traversing.9/26 Lifting weights at AFC. DEadlift 265lbs. I can’t hold on to the bar. Box jumps and Myotatic Crunch as well9/27 Power 2. This was a good session. About 1 hour on the moonboard and I am toast. The style of climbing on the board is so good for me.  9/28 LIfted weights at the AFC. Chest and shoulder exercises9/29 Went to Hidden Rocks near Harrisonburg with Ellen. It is an alright little crag, tucked in the woods. The rock is really good, it is a shame there is not more of it. We did some toproping and at the end of the day I led Snowblower, 5.9+. Old school grades at this crag. Later we went and ate BBQ. 9/30 Day trip to the New with Tommy, Chelsea, Carolina. Great day!  We went to 3rd buttress at the Meadow. I warmed up by sending The Prow. Then we did an amazing 11b called Coffindaffer’s something…, great route!  A new one to me too.  Impeccable rock. Then I onsighted a 12a called first, last, always. It was a good fight for me. Multiple cruxes including one right at the anchors and 100ft in total. Ended the day on another long 5.10 that was rather adventurous. Lots of fun!10/1 Quick workout at rocky top. Did some chest and shoulder exercises10/2 Quick workout at Rocky top. 1 set of 12 minutes traverse.  1 set of 15 minutes traverse10/3 Moonboard 3. I think I should have eaten a little more before the session. But good session nonetheless.  Did a really hard v4, don’t know the name. Later almost did a v7.10/4 Workout at AFC at lunch. Deadlift 265. Myotatic Crunch and box jumps too. Did yoga at Fly Dog at night with Ellen.  Really feeling it the next day! It was the sweatiest yoga class I’ve ever been a part of. 10/6 Hound Ears. Conditions were really bad. Really humid and pretty warm too. Overall I had a lot of fun with everyone, seeing the crew and hanging out. I really didn’t climb well, but I think that was really due to the grease. I did flash a v5 and did Alfred Hitchcock, so I did some new problems and circuited the classics too. Hound ears is not only about the climbing after all. Worth the trip!  At least it didn’t rain.10/7 Day after Hound Ears, feeling pretty sore but I did get a good night’s sleep. I iced my hands in the afternoon. I went on a hike for about 2 hours with Mom and Dad at Goshen Creek off the parkway. There was a pretty creek. Super humid day. In the afternoon we hung out and I watched TV.10/8 Felt much less sore when I woke up in the morning than yesterday. Went to Rocky top in the afternoon debating whether I should do endurance sets or boulder on the moonboard. I warmed up with a 10 minute ARC set and after a little bouldering, decided to do Moonboard 4. Turned out to be a good set.  I flashed a handful of v5s, did a v7 from last time (Air Strike?). Overall a good session. Watched the “Dawn Wall” movie at night.10/9 Short workout in the morning at AFC for shoulders10/10 ARC sets at Rocky top. Did 1 unweighted set of 12 minutes. 1 weighted (12lbs) set of 12 minutes. 1 weighted set (16mins) of 12 mins.  Feeling wrecked afterwards10/11 Moonboard 5. Short session today and I felt my power wane quickly. 10/13 Franklin with Jeff and Erin. Jeff’s last hurrah of climbing around here. Chilly fall day, finally.  Felt so nice! After some warmups I flashed Davy Jones Locker, 12a. It wasn’t that hard but I had cold hands and got flashpumped. Then got on Sizzle (12b) which I did 2nd go. Nice face climbing, probably the best route at Franklin main crag. Finished with a lap up Roofasaurus which is kind of a 1 mover and not that fun. 10/14 Hike with Ellen. 8.5 miles at Bear Church Rocks. Nice hike, nice river. Chilly day.  All in all was nice.10/15 ARC session at Rocky Top at night. I felt like my endurance was lacking on Saturday at Franklin. 1 set of 12 mins to warm up, unweighted. 2 sets of 15mins weighted (16lbs). Long and boring.  Then finished with some shoulders and chest exercises.10/16 After work bouldering session on the Parkway. Started by warming up at the forest where I did a few repeats and did the Dance in a handful of tries. That is a good problem!  Very fun. Then I went to the 12.2 boulder.  I didn’t send anything and it was a reminder that these problems are hard. I started with Razzle Dazzle which I made some efforts on and didn’t send but got pretty close. I tried BetaMax primarily, which I didn’t really try at all last year and it seems to be a hard one. I also ended with a few tries on Midnight train to Georgia (aka the Dyno). Good session. It is going to be a lot of work to put these together. 10/17 Workout at the AFC. Core, deadlift, Box jumps10/19 Had the day off, expecting to go to the new. Instead I had a beautiful fall day on the parkway. After some warm up at the forest, I went back to 12.2. Spent a full day sessioning on various lines. I also worked the top of Blue Ridge Beauty on a rope and did the end moves. They are a bit spicy!  But they are all there. Amazing Amazing day to be out there. 10/20 Went to Vineyards with Ellen, her dad, and step mom.  Beautiful day out there!  Went for a run in the morning. 10/21 Got up early and went back out to the parkway.  It was very crispy outside and was hard to warm up. I started at C-137 and did a few warmups then went to 12.2.  I was noticeably less fresh. I think one day of rest is not enough unfortunately. I did go ground up on BRB though and worked out a couple moves above the horizontal break. I got almost up to the crimp and played with some holds.  It was still a productive session though. I also messed with the far left line which seems like it’ll be much harder than it looks. There is potential for another linkup as well. Also, I got a quick tour of the Wormhole area from the Richmond crew.  There are a couple cool lines!  Later in the day went on a hike with Ellen at Crabtree Falls.  Beautiful day.10/22 Went to Rocky Top at night and did chest, shoulders, preventative exercises. 10/23 Deadlift, Core, and Box jumps at AFC10/24 Took the afternoon off for a beautiful fall day and went to the parkway. Started at the wormhole where I did a nice v5, then did a little work on Escape Velocity.  I worked through most of the moves, didn’t do them all.  The beginning kind of sucks but the big move to the lip will be cool.  Then went to 12.2 for the business.  I had 5 pads this day so that was enough confidence to go ground up to my high point. I went from the horizontal break to where I began on a rope (last couple moves on Blue Ridge beauty). I almost did the whole thing but decided it wasn’t worth it with at least a spotter. I am very confident I’ll do it next time out if I can get someone, and maybe even if I cant. I also did the top of Bring your Own Oxygen into those same moves. That’ll be a harder link and require more pads moving, so I can’t do it alone. Later I tried the Midnight Train dyno quite a few times and almost stuck it. This is a really frustrating move for me. Then tried BetaMax a bit and think I might have a sequence that works but still can’t do it. I spent the last bit of day light cleaning up the line on the far left side of the boulder. I think it’s gonna be a cool one and the top will not be quite as spicy as the others.  Still not gonna be easy though. As far as I know/can tell, this will be a new problem. Great day out there!  Thankful for it.10/25 Walk with Ellen on Monticello trails10/26 Workout at lunch. Chest and Shoulders.10/27 Went to Seneca with Fanning. I went expecting the worst, wet conditions, but it turned out to be good in the cave. Like Fanning said, the climbing is good in there. I did a 12a, Predator. And got to see Fanning do the FA of “Apex Predator”, the full line out the roof. I got on Nightmare twice and mostly worked it out. We later went on a hike at New Creek, looks like there is some route potential out there. Also, I met Tom Cecil, local guide.10/28 Went to Wintergreen with Ellen, Josh, Corinne. Nice day to be outside and do some moderates. It was a bit cold while we were climbing though, but enjoyable to be out on a beautiful fall day. I think this area would be useful for some rope soloing, etc.10/30 Ended up taking the whole day off work. But it was totally worth it. Warmed up at the trifecta boulders in the forest. I did the Prow again and a couple others. Then went to 12.2. Conditions were good and I took my time working the topout, cleaning it, and eventually going for it. I executed first time and did it, the top is still insecure though and should not be taken lightly.  I also got video.  Super psyched about this one as it was my goal for the fall bouldering. I’d like to do one of the other extensions (bring your own oxygen) which will be a bit harder but still doable. I am not sure about the grade on this one but its a heck of a line and was a great experience. Later tried the left project a bit and it turns out it’ll be a tough one as well. Beautiful fall day and a pleasure to be out there. 10/31 Went for a run after work.  Happy Halloween11/1 Ended up going to Sugar Hollow in the afternoon/night with Taylor and Melissa. I rapped in, cleaned and put draws on “Shocker”. I did a warmup pitch and 2 goes on Shocker, which I sent second try of the day. This is supposed to be 12c. Though I was feeling tired I was happy to take this one down as it is some weird but great climbing.  Underrated route for sure! It has the Tilt dyno, a crimpy section, then a strange mantle on a block using a tiny sharp crimp. 11/2 Light workout at AFC.  Chest and shoulders11/3 Big day at Seneca with Matt Fanning. He did “Flyin’ Lion” which is Nightmare to the extension. Awesome to see that go down!  We warmed up on a 5.11 and I was completely numb. Then got on Nightmare which I fell off the end of twice. I am honestly not super motivated to go back and finish it. But it was good for me to get on another 13a and quit being afraid of them. I almost did this one with no endurance so it goes to show me that I am capable of more. I went back and finished the 5.11 (“Southern Thriller”) and I toproped another 5.10 next to it. Also, we scrambled around the walls and looked at the Bell Wall. I later went on a hike to the observatory lookout. It was an absolutely beautiful day to be alive out there!11/4 Awesome day out at Old Rag with Tilley, Peter Grill, and friends. We went to the Sunset Crags. Weather was absolutely perfect. I did a handful of routes including an onsight of Sunset Crack, which I was happy about, and tried Gone Fishin.  I’ll have to go back for that one.11/5 Light workout at AFC. Shoulders and chest. Feeling worked from all the climbing I have been doing.  Need some rest11/7 Took the afternoon off and went to the Parkway. I started by going up the hill at The Forest and climbed God’s Own Greenstone in a handful of tries. This is a fun roof problem that is totally my style into a tricky mantle topout.  Fun one!  That upper area is pretty cool I need to put some more time into it in the future. Then I went to the 12.2 boulder. I was not intending on topping it out today but the weather stayed cloudy all day. Despite being a bit warm (mid-50s?) I was feeling really good and the sloper up top felt good enough. I started by repeating Razzle Dazzle in just a couple tries and then did the middle move at the top of the jug ramp a couple times. Then I prepped the topout again and went for it. Razzle Dazzle definitely adds some heat into the topout (same as What Could Have Been). I hit the lip and barely stuck the jug for the left hand. I was psyched! Bring Your Own Oxygen is so classic and I am super glad I went for it. The moment felt right.11/8 Bouldered at Rocky Top. Just a fun session. Climbed some random stuff. First time back in the gym in a while.11/9 Lifted weights at AFC. Deadlift, box jumps, and shoulders.11/10 Hiked Old Rag with Ellen. Got up early and did the whole 9 mile loop.  It was a beautiful fall day. There were a lot of other hikers out there but we distanced ourselves from most of them. Spent the afternoon at her friends’ house in Criglersville.11/11 Went to Manchester Wall in Richmond with Corey. We were going to have a bigger group but others bailed. It was a pleasant day teaching Corey how to belay and climbing some easy pitches.11/12 Light workout at AFC, shoulders11/14 Afternoon bouldering session. I went to the Parkway where I warmed up on the Siesta Boulder. After a little while I repeated Power Nap (minus the topout).  This thing is hard! Then I went to 12.2 where I did a bit of climbing before I was booted by a parkway ranger because they were preparing for an incoming storm. I bailed and went to Sugar Hollow where I tried the egg. This one was never very appealing but it was something different. This one's a mystery to me. Taylor says it is chipped. I don’t know if it is an eliminate or not. I did it by starting on the edge and making one move out left to the arete to a sharp jug, then went up the arete. Even if this isn’t what it’s supposed to do, I don’t care. It is too sharp to do again.11/15 Workout at AFC. Box jumps, kettlebell swings, and shoulders11/16 Maybe a light workout at the AFC, can’t remember11/17 Awesome day of bouldering at the New with Matt, Tucker, Richie, and Chloe. I have not bouldered much at the new, and not in a long time. We started with Fern Creek where I flashed a v5 and a low v7 that was my style (Is it Organic?). We played on some other stuff, including F5. Later we went back down to the river and to the Sunshine Boulders. The Sunshine boulder itself was awesome where we did a classic v3 and Sunshine Arete, which I flashed. At the end of the day we went to The White, a classic problem nearby. I really surprised myself with another flash. This is my hardest flash to date. The last move was desperate and I am psyched I held on. 11/18 Went bouldering again with the crew at Short Creek, which is below Beauty Mountain. After some warm ups we went down to Water Equation, a beautiful problem situated on the creek. I surprised myself again and kept the flash train rolling by doing it first go. I was really psyched. I have definitely made a breakthrough with flashes during this trip. I spotted the others for a while after that. Richie did it after a handful of tries and Matt and Tucker were both close. Later we went to the next boulder and did Vaminos. I did not flash it, it took about 4 tries. After that we were tired so we walked up the hill and watched Phil and Jess Hoffman climb on the Super Mario boulder a little, then ate some bday cake. I stopped by town and saw Rachel Scheffe briefly before going back to Charlottesville. This turned out to be one of my better weekends of bouldering ever.  Though I don’t feel in my best shape ever, the results speak for themselves. 11/19 Feeling tired after being at the New. Worked out at AFC during lunch. Chest, Military press, shoulders. Feeling better afterwards11/20 Light workout at AFC during lunch. Deadlift and box jumps + stretching11/21 Great day out at Blowing Rock with Matt. I got up early and drove to Boone from Charlottesville. Conditions were great. I started the day by doing Roof of Death first go. Matt nearly did it too. Then I did Tendon Sandwich for the first time and repeated Maddox Traverse. Finished the day on the 45 wall. Beautiful day to be out there, perfect fall weather. 11/22 Thanksgiving day. Beautiful day but I spent most of it inside watching football and eating. We played cards too.11/23 Bad weather day. Went to Bays Mountain State Park with the family. We got to see a pack of wolves eat and some other cool animals. 11/24 Kind of rainy day. I went for a run at the greenway with Mom around noon. Later went to the ASU football game with Dad and Dan. ASU won the game!11/25 Nice day at Blowing Rock, colder than expected. Went out with Matt, Leif, Tucker, Dylan and Veronica. There were a lot of trees down after the ice storm on Friday night and I had to clear a bunch from the trail. The rock was dry enough and we did some classics. I nearly did AHR. I did all the move and fell from the last move. I didn’t want to try it more because it is kind of tweaky on the right knee, but I’d like to get back to it. Madeline Sorkin was out there as well. Didn’t feel great today after three days of sitting and drinking and not much physical activity. 